Appearance

Jacks is undeniably attractive, with a ruthless, sharp kind of beauty.[2] He is tall with long, lean legs. He has vivid silver-blue eyes, (which sometimes morph into more vivid or dull shades,) and golden-blond hair. Jacks' skin is pale and smooth like marble. He has long, slender, pale fingers. His real smile reveals a pair of dimples. He has a sharp jaw and sharp teeth with a pointed chin. His narrow, sulky mouth has a slightly fuller lower lip. Jacks often dresses carelessly, with his shirt untucked or not buttoned all the way. He feels very cold to the touch. He looks bored, rich, and cruel.

As part of his disguise while in the Magnificent North pretending to be a noble named Lord Jacks, he dyes his hair a brilliant blue. It eventually returns to his original dazzling golden-blond.

Personality

Jacks appears to be a careless young man who is unbothered with others’ opinions. His reputation as a Fate hints that he is quite the charmer but also a heartbreaker. He can be rude and says whatever’s on his mind such as telling Tella to go away and choose another sky carriage and threatening to push her off when she doesn’t listen. He’s very flirtatious and is always teasing Tella and Evangeline, almost never calling them by their names and referring to them by terms of endearment such as “My Love” and “Little Fox” respectively.

Because he is a Fate, Jacks is very possessive and obsessive, and will do anything to get what he wants. He was obsessed with Tella and tried to possess and control her emotions many times and even married her without her permission. When she confronted him about it he was quick to let her sever the bond, but that didn’t stop him as at the end of Finale, he tried to get her to let him manipulate her emotions for eternity in exchange for rescuing Legend.

Jacks never justifies or condones his actions but he tries to explain them. He told Tella that even though he stopped her heart and threatened Legend that he’d kill her if he didn’t give him his powers back he confessed that he wasn’t actually going to kill her and would never harm her and that “he’s a villain even in his own story”.

In the beginning of Once Upon a Broken Heart, Jacks is yet again careless and blatantly rude to Evangeline when he overhears her in his church calling her speech pathetic but agrees to help her anyways in exchange for three kisses from her. But when she meets him again days after at the Nocte Neverending, he is moodier and colder than before due to Tella’s rejection and wonders why she is there and immediately gets her to kiss Apollo as part of their deal.

He has a tender and caring side that he rarely shows, such as when he helps Scarlett find her previous fiancé, carrying Tella in his arms back to her sister and Julian when Legend abandons her at the end of the second Caraval game, holding Evangeline close to comfort her when she was poisoned and crying uncontrollably despite her trying to break free from his hold. Taking Evangeline to the Hollow (even though it is a place he has avoided going to since he turned into a fate) and letting her bite his neck while traveling there, using the arch stones to go back in time to when Evangeline was alive and making sure she is safe and out of the way when he hears Chaos take off his helm.

Jacks can appear reckless, indolent, and careless. The rumors about him while he is Empress Elantine's heir are that he is a "soulless madman who will do anything to get the crown."[3]

He used to carry uniquely colored apples that had a dark red juice with him. In A Curse for True Love, it's alluded that Jacks eats so many apples to control his urges. This has been confirmed by the author.[4] Jacks states to Evangeline at the end of the book that he doesn't need them anymore. In the Waterstones alternate ending Evangeline claims that Jacks now prefers to stay away from apples.